Should watch this class's recording to get more clarity

Today's topic:
Availability Set and its settings
Scale Set and its settings

Rack - Set of Virtual machines

Instead of keeping all virtual machines in a single rack, we instead host them in multiple other different racks.
While doing periodic maintenance, Microsoft considers upgrading all the machines in the horizontal sequence. So, if Microsoft gets a downtime, it is a problem. So, Microsoft doesnt place them in same rack, same update domain(Horizontal rack). It will place the machines in different update domains, different racks(Fault domain).

Horizontal rack - Update domain
Vertical rack - Fault domain

Availability zone - Having machines in different zones.
Availability set - Ensures multiple vms are distributed different physical hardware. So, maintenance doesnt effect the uptime of VMs.

How many Fault Domains and Update domains can be created ?
Answer: 20 Update domains can be created, 3 fault domains can be created by Azure

We will have three types of Availability options: Availability Zone, Scale set, Availability Set
Availability Set is a logical placement of Virtual servers so that under maintenance the machines are not effected

Scale sets: If we observe any set of machines are being stressed, we can extend the number of servers to distribute the load evenly
We have two types of Scaling
Vertical Scaling and Horizontal Scaling
Vertical Scaling -> Having the same infra but increasing the specifications. We can just turn off the machine, Increase the specs, start again to experience the Vertical Scaling.
Horizontal Scaling -> Increase the number of machines hosted when certain conditions are met. With the help of Golden image, VMs will be created.

To connect to a public IP
CMD in Start button
ssh devopsuser@40.85.254.50
You'll be logged into the machine
apt install apache-2 y
cd /var/www/html
You'll find index.html
%d for deleting everthing
Paste the html code we have
systemctl restart apache2 - To restart the machine
Now, open the port 80 to access network.

Using a command, we can create Golden image
Azure provides one agent which can remove all the 
waagent -deprovision+user
With this -> user will be deleted which we get from Golden image
Public Ip settings - Will be removed and factory settings will be enabled

/etc/resolv.conf will have all the settings of the user

Shut down the VM
Capture the VM -> from this, create an image

Sequence of Image creation -> Create Compute Gallery name -> Create image definition -> Create Image version
---------------------------------------------------
Revision of todays class
Create VM
Configured the VM
	Apache install and hosted webpage
Create a Image out of it

Create Scale Set
	Choose the image
	Min, max, default servers
	When spiked, how many servers to be created
	Create load balancer with Auto Options
---------------------------------------------------
Creating a VM Scale Set means It acts as you are creating Virtual machine across zones and creating scale set



Pricing Calculator
