Physical Layer - CPU, RAM, HDD, NIC, Mother Board, IO Devices
Interface -> Kernel - Layer for OS(Brain in entire OS) - We can conclude Kernel as a Librarian who manages.
Operating System -> Pre defined apps | User defined Apps
Drivers -> A mediator between Kernel and Physical Hardware


Human


Kernel will make sure it allocates required resources from Physical Layer
Kernel looks after CPU Scheduling, Memory Management, File system, Security and permission.

We have two different Operating systems.
1. Server Operating system - Linux is preferred more in general
Example,
Windows Server OS - 2016,2019,2022,2025
Linux Server OS - Redhat, Ubuntu, Suse, Fedora, Kali, Debian - All these are made from the base Linux OS
2. Desktop Operating system - Windows is preferred more in general
Windows Desktop Server - Windows 10, 11
Linux Desktop Server - 

Appliance - It only works for single task

Benefits of Linux
Open source -> full control
Light weight and efficient
Security model
Highly customizable
Automation and Devops -> Used in Docker
Kubernetes, Terraform
Stability and Uptime
Upgrades, updates and Install are easier in Linux


Today's class work:
Access Linux VM using SSH Keys, Certificates, Secrets
SSH Keys -> Public Key, Private key
We will have Private Key and Server will have Public Key


In Linux
User and Group management
File permissions
Editors -> vi, vm are the editors in Linux for scripts
Package management
Shell scripting
Cron Job(Schedulers)
SSH Keys


Lets test in local machine
While creating VM
Username: azureuser
SSH public key source: Generate new key pair
SSH Key Type: RSA SSH Format
Key pair name: devopsuser


We can access VM from command prompt in Windows
Till now, we connect by ssh devops@IP Address
Now, the process changed. Here are the steps below:
Go to the location where pem file is present.
Command to connect to a machine using private key.
Run the command with "ssh -i .\devopsuser.pem devopsuser @20.220.165.235"
Same command for Linux and Windows


Putty is used to Connect
Putty keygen - Puttygen application needs to be downloaded.
Putty will not accept pem file. So, We have to convert the pem to ppk file to let Putty connect.

How to use PuTTY?puttygen.exe
Once the Port number and Host name is given, everything will be fine.
In putty, Connection, session...


We can place our keys in .ssh/ folder to automatically login to the machines.

Private keys are related to User based. Each user will get one Private Key.
10 Users will get 10 different private keys

All the keys will be stored by Azure in this location - /home/devopsuser/.ssh/authorized_keys



Doubts:
What is Serial Host, Serial Port?
pem and ppk ? both are private keys but different format. In putty, ppk is used.

