Day 9 - 13-03-2026

Today's topic: Storage as a service

Types of storage:
Blob storage
File storage
Tables
Queues

For example, Hospital data
Hospital
Insurance company
Doctor
CT Scan report ->All the data will be stored in Blob storage as this will have unstructured data.


BLOB -> MRI(Container) -> Unstructured data
File storage -> All the files related to a patient will be mounted
Tables -> To retrieve data fastly. NoSql structured data in tables.
Queues -> Hospital will form a queue between Hospital and Insurance company. Where all the data will be logged in the queue.

Kinds of Storage types:
Hard disk
Standard SSD
Premium SSD

Speed of retrieval is calculated in two parameters - IOPS, Latency
IOPS - Input Output per second
Latency - How fast the data can be retrieved. The response time should be low.

Reliable
Backup
Pay as you go model
Share the data across multiple teams and applications

Since we are just using the Storage, and the infra is being managed by azure. we called this a PAAS Service.


Redundancy storage types
LRS -> Local Redundancy Storage -> Creates 3 copies in the same zone
ZRS -> Zone Redundancy Storage -> Creates 1 copy for each zone in the same Region
GRS -> Geo Redundancy Storage -> Creates copies in different Geo graphical regions. 3 copies in Primary zone in one region and another 3 copies in Secondary region in one zone.
GZRS -> Geo Zone Redundancy Storage. In primary, backup files will be in all three zones but in same region with synchronous. But, In secondary zone, backup files will be in a single region, single zone and in asynchronous.

Synchronous -> All the changes made in machines of LRS, ZRS will be in sync. And changes made in one Region of GRS will be in sync but all the changes made will be transferred to another region will be in asynchronous mode.
Asynchronous -> All the changes are replicated in the form of batches.


Browse button is using REST API

Practice VM Creation
Availability zone
Availability Set
VM Scale Set
Storage account


Documents- Will be shared

Lets do a Project in future on the below topics
VM, SS, SA, DB Server(MySql server), Linux
Blob cannot be able to mount. But, File storages can be mounted to Linux machines.