Networking Session
Hub
Switch
Router
There are the 3 external devices which can be used to establish connections between multiple Network interfaces

Physical - MAC Address
Registration number is unique throughout India - MAC Address. MAC Address is assigned for Network Interface which is unique.
Door No is like IP Address.

Network Interface A - This will have MAC Address which is a unique identifier, IP Address
Network Interface B - This will have MAC Address which is a unique identifier, IP Address
Network Interface C - This will have MAC Address which is a unique identifier, IP Address

Hub: Not an intelligent device. So, all the information will be broadcasted to all the devices in the hub.
Since it is sending all devices, there is a security concern and unnecessary traffic if we wanted to send from Device A to Device B instead of Device C
Switch: It is an intelligent device. Switch is used for internal communication. 

Router: This is used for External communication. For connecting external network.

Device between Teo network is Router. Then, Connection between VNets is VNET Peering ?

Every subnet will reserve 5 IPs - Network, AZure Gateway for internet connectivity, DNS, AZure Internal, Reserved.
Out of 256, only 251 are usable.

Resource group --> Creata VNET(Also called network) --> Subnets --> Virtual machines

For subnets, range will be from /29 to /16. If we wanted to create bigger network than /16, it is recommended to create multiple Smaller VNets and make Vnet peering connection between these two VNets.
IP Address - Shop address
Port - Shop number

Linux SSH - Port 22
Windows RDP - Port 3389

To connect to a Virtual machine in Windows Laptop
In Windows Laptop, Open Command prompt
ssh username@IPAddress
password

4 octets each 8 bits which means 0-255
For addresses, we are going to change only last 2 octets
Max we can use till /8 from /32




Action items:
Create a VNET using a use case of Bank - Loans, HR, Cards, Accounts
Create a VM in Loans Subnet

Doubts:
How many bits ?8.8.8.8=32. How is the formula araised ?
What is vnet peering?


Next day's topic:
