Date: 09-04-2026
Agenda for today
Push Local repo to Remote Repo in Git

Working directory
Staging area
Local repo
Remote repo

"remote" means nothing but alias for Github repo. we can write "tiger" instead of remote also.

git push --set-upstream origin main

An upstream branch is like a link between your local branch(changes after commit command)(in this case, main) and the corresponding branch on the remote repo(Github). Git needs this link to know where to push your changes.

When you first push a branch, git doesnt automatically know which remote branch it should push to. The --set-upstream flag tells git to create this link: it sets origin/main as the upstream for your local main branch.

After running git push --set-upstream origin main, future pushes can just be git push and git will know to push to origin/main.


I actually faced a problem while running "git push --set-upstream origin main". The problem is my terminal is still using the old credentials of mohangit2 user account.
So, after deleting the cached credentials. Things started working.
Command to delete the credentials is cmdkey /delete:git:https://github.com

To know the user name of the account that is logged in: git config --global user.name
To know the email ID of the account that is logged in: git config --global user.email


To create a branch called "laundry": git branch laundry
To delete any feature branch, you have to come to main and perform the delete operation
To delete a branch called "laundry": git branch -d laundry(Small d is required if the branch doesnt have any changes in it or the branch commits are already merged to main)
To delete a branch called "saloon": git branch -D saloon (Capital D is required if the branch is having changes in it)
To switch to a branch: git branch laundry
To create a branch and switch to it at a time: git switch -c laundry


In the below example,
(HEAD -> main, laundry): Both main branch and feature branch(laundry) are at HEAD
But, the remote branch(Github) is at fourth commit itself since we just did git commit and git merge and we didnt do git push

PS C:\Users\MY LAP\Documents\Devops\GIT\Day2> git log -- oneline
eb053a2 (HEAD -> main, laundry) 14 added
dfac00c 13 added
ea6e416 Added 11, 12
6172fbb (origin/main) fourth commit
e4e9e8b seconu commt
0500211 updated file1.txt
ede4289 initial commit
PS C:\Users\MY LAP\Documents\Devops\GIT\Day2>


